The movements systems support, or MSS, supports IOM's global objective
in promoting humane and orderly migration for the benefit of everyone.
MSS reports directly to the Resettlement & Movement Management in IOM HQ.
Specifically, MSS is directly under the Movement Operations unit of RMM.
MSS has two further specialized teams in the form of
Airlines Invoice Settlement (or AIS) and Data Monitoring Section (or DMS).
The main objective of MSS is to support IOM's global objectives
in promoting human and orderly migration for the benefit of everyone.
And MSS does this in three main ways
One is by processing of global airlines invoices,
Another is by monitoring & reporting of movements
and lastly, by providing technical systems support.
Geographically, MSS is physically situated
in the Manila Administrative Center, in the Philippines.
Here, MSS frequently interacts with IOM's
Global Airlines Partners all around the world.
Mainly, these interactions are either related to Invoices or to Credit Notes.
These will be discussed in more detail later.
At the same time, IOM Missions from all over the world also interact with MSS.
These interactions are mostly related to Ticket Order Records
Statistics & Numbers, User Accesses to RMM Systems,
and maintenance of the RMM Portal & RMM Systems.
MSS functions can be classified into the three main aspects:
Systems Support, Data Monitoring, and Airline Invoice Settlement.
The Systems support team manages the
RMM portal and the handbook of international tariffs.
The team also keeps track of user accesses for iGATOR and other Systems.
As the name implies, the Data Monitoring team
MONITORS the movement data in MiMOSA and iGATOR.
They generate and analyze reports that promote compliance to IOM Standards.
And the airlines invoice settlement team ensures that all of
IOM's booked tickets from Global Airlines Partners
are paid and settled accordingly.
Together these three teams make up the Movement Systems Support.